# Week 2  Software Development Life Cycle Models

## Motivation SDLC models
+ SDLC
    + Software Development Life Cycle
        * describe a process (a num of phases) for planning, designing, building, testing and deploying an information system.
    + high-level process
    + there's no a perfect one
        * need to decide an appropriate one
    + artifacts
        * as outputs
        * as inputs
        * What steps do we need to take to produce the outputs from the inputs? 
        * What techniques and tools can be applied? 

## Activities/phases in software development
+ Requirements engineering
    * eliciting the requirements for the system, analysing and deﬁning these requirements using models, and validating the requirements.
    * _investigation_
    * _critical thinking, analysing_
    * _real requirements_
    * _validation_
    * _output: SRS, Software Requirement Specification_
+ design
    * System/architectural design
        - _architecture = structure + activities_
            - _components and their connections & iteractions_
    * Detailed design
+ Development(Implementation)
+ Integration
+ Testing
    + [Unit Test? Integration Test? Regression Test? Acceptance Test?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7672511/unit-test-integration-test-regression-test-acceptance-test)
    + [What is Unit test, Integration Test, System test, Regression Test?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/520064/what-is-unit-test-integration-test-smoke-test-regression-test)
    * _unit testing_
    * _integration testing_
    * _regression testing_
    * _acceptance testing_
    * _system testing_
+ Delivery and release
+ Maintenance

## Prescriptive(formal) models
+ waterfall
    * not widely used nowadays
    * pros
        - easy to track 
        - easy to control
        - quantifiable
    * cons
        - complete a phase before moving onto the next
        - cannot go back
        - takes a long time to know whether it works or how it looks like
        - resource isolation
+ modiﬁed waterfall
    * revist based on feedback
+ V model
    * unit testing
    * _shows exactly which testing activities correspond to each of the analysis (concept and requirements) and decomposition (architectural and detailed design) activities_
+ incremental
    * divide the development into a ﬁxed number of increments each involving a planning, requirements, design, implementation and testing phases
    * Each increment may follow a mini-waterfall or other process.
    * pros
        - more ﬂexibility
        - reduce risks in a changing env
    * cons
        - hard to choose increment
        - can get complex
        - integration can be hard
        - needs to well managed
+ iterative
    * broken up into a number of iterations
    * a reworking development strategy to revise and improve parts of the system leaving time alone
    * spiral
        - a type of iterative model in which each iteration has distinctive sequence of activities that are designed to manage risk.
        - Unlike the incremental approach, each iteration typically involves __risk analysis__, __prototyping__ to determine the feasibility and desirability of various __alternatives__, and then design, coding and testing.
+ diff between incremental and iterative process though similar
    * incremental
        - divided into a ﬁxed number of increments
        - dev different parts of the system at different times/rates then integrate
+ evolutionary


## Agile models

### Extreme Programming

### Scrum
+ Sprint
+ Product Backlog
+ Sprint Backlog
+ Scrum Team
+ Product Owner
+ Scrum Master
+ Dev Team
+ Sprint Planning Event
+ Daily Scrum
+ Sprint Reviewing Meeting
+ Sprint Restropective
